# Reading Response

Making an unconventional game such as that where you play through a character that experiences real weakness and vulnerability allows the player to connect to the game on a more intimate and human level. By making games that conceptualize either real world or fantasy traumas and difficult situations and having it be perceived through a character who does not have much or any power, the player is being put in the shoes of someone who is stuck in these situations. Rather than being the hero of the story and eventually gaining the power to defeat whatever conflict is at the other end, the player is forced to see the pain of their character and is unable to escape that. 

This more realistically reflects the experiences of people in the real world. Most people deal with traumas and experience being in a weak and vulnerable place and some people are never able to escape that. These games are used to expose the players empathy and connect on a higher human level with people and experiences that they themselves might never know but are extremely real. It gets the player out of the loop of unrealistic heroic storylines and instead brings them into a real-world experience with an underlying message, whether that be something like the horrific effects of war or the feeling of alienation like the E.T. game. 

These games are not meant to be "fun" for the most part and can actually be very frustrating to play because no matter how hard you try in the game, there is probably still going to be a level of weakness and defeat the character/player experiences. these games can cause stress, anger and anxieties while playing with little to no pay off in the game, but that is exactly the point because it mimics real life. It is a lesson to be learned and/or a chance to open one's mind, emotions, and thoughts to real conflicts and the people that are affected by them. 
